blog: add account takeover incident (#15013)
pypi/warehouse: docs/blog/posts/2023-12-04-account-takeover.md

and removed the original owner. None of the projects had any modifications made to them other than ownership changes.

After the attacker completed ownership changes, they deleted the user's account.

PyPI Admins were informed by the user via email,
blocked the attacker's access to the account,
and restored the user's ownership of their projects.

No further compromise was made, and **existing packages were not modified**.

Read on for more details.

## Timeline

_all times are in UTC_

System timings are from project ownership changes and email notifications.
When a user's account is deleted, the account's data is removed immediately,
thus we do not have timing of when the attacker gained access to `meisnate12`'s account.

**Date: 2023-11-22**

- 08:42:33 new user account `dvolk` created

_(this is the first of 4 packages, only describing one here)_

- 08:44:55 `meisnate12` account invites `dvolk` to be a collaborator on `arrapi`
- 08:47:25 `dvolk` accepts the invitation
- 08:47:35 `dvolk` removes `meisnate12` as a collaborator on `arrapi`

_(repeated for `tmdbapis`, `nagerapi`, `pmmutils`)_

- 08:50:27 `meisnate12` account is deleted

> No further actions by `dvolk` are observed after this point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No further actions by `dvolk` were observed after this point.
```

Author: Thanks - during incident reports, I tend to use "always now" tense, which doesn't make sense in a post-incident summary.

### Deleting things can have unintended consequences

When a user account is deleted, all the account's data is removed.
We have a mechanism in place today that prevents a user account from being deleted
if they are the sole owner of any projects, to prevent orphaning projects.

In this case, the attacker was able to remove the user's ownership of their projects,
and then delete the account.

We have previously entertained ideas on how to prevent full deletions
without PyPI Admin intervention, but have yet to settle on a solution.
See [this tracking issue](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/issues/6091) and for more details.
It's not as simple as it sounds.

Even if we continue to delete resources immediately,
we should entertain what we can do to preserve some of the details we might need
to investigate further.
[This issue](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/issues/6451) tracks that effort.

### If you see something, say something

When collaborators are added or removed to a project,
or an account is deleted, we email the address on file.

We were informed of the incident by the impacted user,
who still had access to the email account associated with their PyPI username.

> Here's a few things you can do to help protect your PyPI account: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few things you can do to help protect your PyPI account: 
```
